Part 1: Introduce yourself, your interests and motivations
From the past five years of my engagement with different organizations , I have been working in Data Engineering field for different business sectors like healthcare, retail and telecom. I’m currently working as a Senior Data engineer in an retail organization architecting data lakes , data pipelines as well as automating and enhancing the already existing products to serve the requirements of the business customers in a better way. As a part of Data Engineering team my main responsibilities are to create robust and scalable data pipelines that gather data from multiple sources, transform it into analytics-ready data, and make it available to data consumers for analytics and decision-making. 

Part 2: Summarize your undergraduate and previous graduate career
From my school days  I had keen interest in Computer’s, from the idea of writing a simple program to sum up two numbers in the first computer lab session to understanding how the internet and different websites work I had made up my mind to pursue engineering in Information Technology. During my engineering I took up several modules such as Data Structures and Algorithms , Mathematics , Cloud Computing and Database management Systems scoring first class in all the subjects but one thing I realised after looking at all the different subjects was Computer Science has more than just the internet and programming that I initially thought . I developed a keen interest in Database management systems and how the data is stored in different databases. I also heard of the phrase “Data is the new oil” on reading more about it I realized there is more than just storing the data in the databases, the companies were actually deriving insights and making their business decisions based on the data like Ecommerce giant Amazon used to analyse the data and provided users with personalized discount coupons based on the users purchase history . On completion of my bachelor’s degree I had a breadth of all the subjects but my interest majorly lied in Data Engineering and Data Science.

Part 3: Discuss the relevance of your recent and current activities



Of my five years journey I have realised that the facilitator i.e. the data engineering plays a vital role in helping the businesses take those data driven decisions by making the data available in a structured format for business users and data scientist .
I have worked on various projects which include migrating an outdated on-premise data warehouse to cloud , automating the excel reports which were earlier created manually by analysts  and creating streaming data pipelines which provide real-time tracking status of the events happening. All of these projects have directly/indirectly enabled the business users to take data driven decisions. 

Part 4: Elaborate on your academic interests
End your statement in a positive manner, indicating your excitement and readiness for the challenges ahead of you.

Looking at the curriculum of Master’s at Manchester which includes data engineering, Machine learning and data science it would add all the required skills to my arsenal to understand and solve any data related use case . Also at the same time it would give me an exciting opportunity to get in depth  knowledge of how Distributed systems work, how internally data is stored in databases and how to turn the raw data to insights helping me become a Full Stack data engineer who is responsible for turning raw data to insights.
